OpenAI CEO Sam Altman: "We have been a misunderstood and badly mocked ork for a long time" "We stand on the precipice of fundamental societal transformation where soon nobody knows when," he says. "This is both exciting and terrifying. It is terrifying because of the power that superintelligent AGI wields to destroy human civilization intentionally or unintentionally" "I will continue to have these conversations, to both celebrate the incredible accomplishments of the AI community and to steal man the critical perspective on major decisions," says Altman. ChatGPT uses reinforcement learning with human feedback. It's a giant language model that's trained in a giant data set to create this background wisdom knowledge. The science of human guidance is a very interesting science. There's a lot of content in the world. More than I think most people think, says John Defterios, co-founder and CEO of chat firm GBT. GBT is developing a version of ChatGPT called GBT4. GPT-4 is a language model that learns, in quotes, something. In terms of science and art and so on, is there within OpenAI, within folks like yourself, a deeper and deeper understanding of what that something is, or is it still a kind of beautiful magical mystery? Well, there's only evils that we could talk about. What's an evil? Like how we measure a model as we're training it and say, how good is this at some side of tasks? The chat GPT site says the dialogue format makes it possible for chat G PT to answer follow-up questions, admit its mistakes, challenge incorrect premises and reject inappropriate requests. But also, there's a feeling like it's struggling with ideas. "We put out things that are going to be deeply imperfect. We want to make our mistakes while the stakes are low," says GPT founder. When I was a little kid, I thought building AI would be like the coolest thing ever. I never really thought I would get the chance to work on it. If you hand people an AGI and that's what they want to do, I wouldn't have believed you. But I understand it more now. I think we made reasonable progress there to a more aligned system than we've ever had before. GPT-4 is a computer program that can be used to steer cars. The system message is a way to let users have a good degree of steerability over what they want. It's not just an alignment. Maybe it's not even mostly an alignment capability. It helps make a better system, a more usable system. I think what's going to have to happen is we will need to agree on a very broad bounds of what these systems can do. GPT-4 is a new tool that allows programmers to communicate with an AI assistant. It's a way of debugging, I guess, for sure. The first versions of these systems were one shot. You said what you wanted. It wrote some code and that was it. Now you can have this back